HTML (Hypertext Markup Language) files are the standard markup language used to create web pages. HTML files contain markup tags that define the structure and content of a web page, including text, images, links, forms, and other elements. HTML files are typically created using a text editor or a web development tool, and they are interpreted by web browsers to display web pages for users.

HTML files consist of plain text that is organized using markup tags. Markup tags are enclosed in angle brackets (<>) and can have attributes that provide additional information about the elements they define. For example, the following is a simple HTML file that defines a basic web page structure:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
    <title>My Web Page</title>
</head>
<body>
    <h1>Hello, World!</h1>
    <p>This is a paragraph of text.</p>
    <ul>
        <li>Item 1</li>
        <li>Item 2</li>
        <li>Item 3</li>
    </ul>
</body>
</html>
```

In this example, the HTML file starts with a doctype declaration (`<!DOCTYPE html>`) that specifies the version of HTML being used. It then contains an opening and closing `<html>` tag that defines the root element of the web page. Inside the `<html>` tags, there are `<head>` and `<body>` tags that define the head and body sections of the web page, respectively. The `<head>` section typically contains meta information, such as the title of the web page, while the `<body>` section contains the visible content of the web page.

Within the `<body>` section, there are various HTML elements, such as `<h1>` and `<p>` tags for headings and paragraphs, and `<ul>` and `<li>` tags for an unordered list. These elements are used to structure and format the content of the web page, and they can be nested and combined in various ways to create complex web pages with different styles and layouts.

HTML files can also include links to other web resources, such as CSS files for styling and JavaScript files for interactivity, as well as images, audio, video, and other types of media files. These resources are referenced using URLs (Uniform Resource Locators) in HTML tags, allowing web browsers to retrieve and display them as part of the web page.

Once an HTML file is created and uploaded to a web server, it can be accessed by users through a web browser by entering the URL of the file in the address bar. The web browser then requests the HTML file from the web server, which sends the file to the browser for rendering, and the resulting web page is displayed to the user.