Stylesheet Subresource Integrity (SRI) is a security feature that can be used to protect websites against the risk of malicious or compromised code being injected into external stylesheets. SRI is a mechanism that allows web developers to ensure that the content of an external stylesheet has not been tampered with during transmission.

SRI works by adding a special hash value to the link tag of an external stylesheet. The hash is generated by running a cryptographic algorithm (usually SHA-384) on the contents of the external stylesheet file. When the web page loads, the browser checks the hash value of the stylesheet against the hash value in the link tag. If the hash values match, the browser knows that the stylesheet has not been modified in transit and it can safely be applied to the web page.

By using SRI, web developers can ensure that any external stylesheets used on their website are authentic and have not been tampered with. This can help to protect against the risk of attacks such as cross-site scripting (XSS) and man-in-the-middle (MITM) attacks, which can be used to inject malicious code into external stylesheets and compromise the security of a website.

SRI is supported by most modern web browsers, including Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. It can be implemented by adding the `integrity` attribute to the link tag of an external stylesheet, along with the hash value of the stylesheet contents.

Overall, Stylesheet Subresource Integrity provides an additional layer of security for websites, and is an important feature to consider when implementing external stylesheets in a web project.